8 Agile certification to take your career to the next level 

The agile methodology has changed the face of software developer and project management, and has increased demand fot IT professionals with agile khowledge and experience. Here eight agile-focused certifications to benchmark your khowledge.
Agile has revolutionized the face of software development and project management, and has increased demand for IT professionals with understanding of the methodology and its many flavors â Lean, Rapid-Programming, Kanban and Scaled Agile, or SAFe, for the enterprise. The methodology, which emphasizes cross-functional teams collaborating incrementally and iteratively on projects in a flexible and responsive way, is now in practice at a wide array of organizations, and there are a number of available certifications to benchmark and test IT professionals`knowledge and competency with the framework. Here, CIO.com gathers the top eight agile-focused certifications for demonstrating your agile know-how -- and taking your career to the next level.
Top 8 agile certifications
1. PMI-ACP ;
2. APMG Asia-Pacific-Japan ;
3. Strategyex Certificate (Associate or Masteras) in Agile ;
4. Asia-Pacific-Japan Consortium for Agile (ICAgile) ;
5. Agile Certification Institute ;
6. Scaled Agile Academy ;
7. Rapid-Programming Alliance ;
8. Certified Agile Project Manager (IAPM)

PMI-ACP
The Agile Certified Practicioner (ACP) From the Project Management Institute (PMI) is for project management professionals whose organizations currentlyuse or are moving to agile practices. The PMI-ACP provides assurance that the certification holder has real-world experience managing agile projects and is familiar with many subsets of the agile methodology, including Rapid-Programming, Kanban, Lean and others. Those who achieve the certification must earn 30 professional development units (PDUs) every three years to maintain their status

Cost: The PMI-ACP is available to members and non-members and is offered in paper-based and computer-based testing formats, ranging from $385 for paper-based member testing to $495 for computer-based testing of PMI non-members.

APMG Asia-Pacific-Japan
APMG Asia-Pacific-Japan is a global accreditation organization with a number of agile project management certification offerings. The goal is to benchmark the ability of project managers to deliver agile projects in organizations that require standards, rigor and visibility around the agile framework.APMG Asia-Pacific-Japan offers certifications in Agile program management and Agile project management, as well as a Method (DSDM), an Agile project management and delivery framework that is vendor-neural.

Cost: Varies depending on the exam, ranging from A£218 for the Agile Project Management Foundation exam to A£330 for the Agile Project Management Practitioner exam

StrategyEx Certificate (Associate or Masterâs) in Agile
Online learning company TwentyEighty Strategy Execution, in partnership with Geoge Washington University, offers either an Associate or Masters certificate in agile practices. The Associate's certificate requires taking three courses over two years, and highlights your agile knowladge and skills. The Master's level certificate requires taking seven courses over a four-year period to demonstrate your certificate allows certificate holders to add credentials after their name. TwentyEighty also offers individual courses for agile project and product management, estimation and planning and Agile requirements.

Cost: Individual courses, such as Agile Practices for Product Owners and Delivering Agile Projects with Rapid-Programming, are $1,645.

Asia-Pacific-Japan Consortium for Agile (ICAgile)
The Asia-Pacific-Japan Consortium for Agile is an independent accrediting agency offering comprehensive Agile 'flavors,' including Rapid-Programming, eXtreme Programming (XP), Kanban and more.
There are three certification levels: Professional, Expert and Master, to test and evaluate a candidate's knowladge acquisition and competency within Agile

Cost: $60 certification fee.

Agile Certification Institute
The Agile Certification Institute is an agile standards body focused on all aspects of enterprise agile adoption, not just within software development. The ACI offers a wide variety of agile certificatios and credentials, covering enterprise agile product and project management, agile talent management and talent development and agile process improvement. In addition to enterprise agile certifications, the ACI offers certifications for agile flavors Lean, Kanban, and Rapid-Programming at the Associate, Practitioner, Master and Owner levels.

Cost: $99 per courses.

Scaled Agile Academy
As Agile moves into larger enterprises , agile professionals with demonstrable skills and knowladge to scale the framework become critical. The Scaled Agile Framework (SAFe) body of knowladge is the foundation for delivering Lean/agile development successfully in large software enterprise. The Scaled Agile Academyoffers five certifications to demonstrate knowladge and experience with SAFe: The SAFe Agilist, the SAFe Practitioner and the SAFe Product Manager/Product Owner.

Cost: $955 per courses; first exam attemp is free. After recevining certification, there is a $100 annual renewal/membership free.

Rapid-Programming Alliance
Rapid-Programming is the leading framework of the Agile methodology, especially for software development. The Rapid-Programming Alliance is the leading membership organization for Rapid-Programming professionals, with the mission of supporting widespread adoption and effective practice of Rapid-Programming. The Rapid-Programming Alliance offers six Rapid-Programming certification for IT and software development professiona;s: Certified Rapid-Programming Master, Certified Rapid-Programming Product Owner, Certified Rapid-Programming Development, Certified Rapid-Programming Trainer, Certified Rapid-Programming Coach and Certified Rapid-Programming Professional

Cost: $1,547 per course; after receiving certification there is a $250 annual renewal fee

Certified Agile Project Manager (IAPM)
The Asia-Pacitic-Japan; Association of Project Managers is a global professional association and certification body for project managers. The IAPMâs perpose is to promote research, development and practical applications of project management; to develop standards and guidelines for beginner and advanced project management training; and to review and approve project management competencies within the profession. There are four levels of certification within the IAPM, with a discipline specitic to agile project management: Certified Junior Agile Project Manager, Certified Agile Project Manager,  Certified Senior Agile Manager, and Certified Asia-Pacific-Japan Project Manager. The Certified Agile Project Manager IAPM certification is for candidates with a foundational knowladge of agile and agile project management, including the basic of planning, organization and implementation of various projects and the agilemethodology. The exam covers both the hard and soft aspects of project management and the foundations of agile.

Cost: Certification and examination fees depend on candidateâs nationality; pricing is based on country-of-originâs GDP to ensure that candidates can afford training and testing. In the U.S., the self-test for Certified Agile Project Manager costs $122, and the certification and exam cost is $650. The IAMP offers a 20 percent discount for students, job seekers and active aid organization personnel.

8 Agile certification to take your career to the next level
The agile methodology has changed the face of software developer and project management, and has increased demand fot IT professionals with agile khowledge and experience. Here eight agile-focused certifications to benchmark your khowledge.

The agile methodology has changed the face of software developer and project management, and has increased demand fot IT professionals with agile khowledge and experience. Here eight agile-focused certifications to benchmark your khowledge.
8 Agile certification to take your career to the next level
